1) What is python? What are the key features?

Python is a high-level, interpreted, and general-purpose programming language. It was created by Guido van Rossum and released in 1991. Python emphasizes code readability and simplicity, making 
it one of the most beginner-friendly languages in the programming world. It is widely used in web development, data science, artificial intelligence, automation, and more.

Key features:-

Easy to Learn and Use
Interpreted Language
High-Level Language
Object-Oriented and Functional
Integrated with Other Languages


2) Story Behind the name ?

When Guido van Rossum, the creator of Python, started developing the language in the late 1980s, he wanted a name that was short, unique, and a bit mysterious. At the time, he was also reading the 
published scripts of "Monty Python’s Flying Circus", a surreal British comedy series from the 1970s. Hence, Python was named after Monty Python. 

3) Version of Python?

Python 1.x (Released in 1991) :- Included basic features like functions, exceptions, and core data types (str, list, dict, etc.).
Python 2.x (2000 – 2020) :- List comprehensions, Garbage collection via reference counting and cycle detector
Python 3.x (2008 – Present) :- A complete redesign of the language to fix fundamental design flaws.

Current version as of 2025: likely Python 3.12 or later.

4) Execution environments: the Python Interpreter and IDEs (e.g. PyCharm or VSCode)

To write and run Python code, you need an execution environment. This includes the Python Interpreter, and optionally, an IDE or a code editor for development support. The Python Interpreter is the 
core engine that reads and executes your Python code line by line. When you install Python, you get access to this interpreter through the command line (python or python3).
IDEs provide a rich interface for coding, debugging, and project management. 

PyCharm:- A professional-grade IDE built specifically for Python.

Features:

Smart code completion
Powerful debugger and testing tools
Virtual environment management
Comes in Community (free) and Professional (paid) editions.
Best for Large projects


Visual Studio Code (VS Code) :- A lightweight, fast, and customizable code editor.


Features:

Syntax highlighting
Code auto-completion
Git integration
Best for Beginners and intermediate users
Web and cross-language projects

5) Identation

Indentation refers to the spaces or tabs at the beginning of a line of code to visually separate code blocks.


6) Literal Constants

name = "Raghav"       # String literal
name1="123Raghav"     # String literal
age = 25              # Integer literal
height = 5.9          # Float literal
is_student = True     # Boolean literal



7) Immutable String :- In Python, strings are immutable, which means once a string is created, it cannot be changed (modified) in place. Below ia one example :-

name = "Raghav"
name[0] = "H"
print(name)

Here, the python code will throw an error as string assignment doesnt support by python

8) Escape Sequences :- An escape sequence is a special character combination used to represent characters that are difficult or impossible to type directly in a 
string. It starts with a backslash (\) followed by another character.

Escape Sequence	Description	Example
\n	Newline 	"Hello\nWorld" → Hello (newline) World
\t	Tab 	"Hello\tWorld" → Hello (tab) World
\\	Backslash	"C:\\Users\\name" → C:\Users\name
\'	Single quote (for strings with single quotes)	"It\'s raining" → It's raining
\"	Double quote (for strings with double quotes)	'She said, \"Hello!\"' → She said, "Hello!"
\r	Carriage return	"Hello\rWorld" → Overwrites "Hello" with "World"
\b	Backspace (removes a character)	"Helloo\b World" → Hello World



































